>>REGINA MEREDITH: A
couple of years ago
I spoke with Paul O'Brien
about the nature of divination.
As the founder of Visionary
Networks and Tarot.com,
Paul has vested his
life in offering
the public accessible means
of using divination tools.
Today he's with us to talk about
his new book, "Great Decisions,
Perfect Timing," which
is about cultivating
our own intuitive intelligence.
And that's the end
game, isn't it?
Then they don't
need your software.
>>PAUL O'BRIEN: Exactly.
Well that was always
my intention--
was to empower people to
access their own intuition
and not be dependent
on external aids.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
And you've-- I mean, you
did well by getting people
in the rhythm and accustomed
to, familiar with,
and safe with using divination
tools through your websites
and such.
And the reality
is it's effective.
Can I tell the little
story of what happened?
>>O'BRIEN: Yeah, go ahead.
>>REGINA: Last
time you were here?
>>O'BRIEN: Yeah,
that's pretty funny.
>>REGINA: Well, it was
funny for you and me,
not for the other person.
But so, OK, so after the
show-- after we shot the show,
we went into my office here.
And we were with another person.
And the person
decided to download,
because she was having so much
fun listening to the interview.
Downloaded the
software and shook
the iPhone-- her six shakes of
the I Ching-- and looked at it.
And you peered over
her shoulder and said,
sounds like you better start
looking for other work.
And we all giggled,
and the next day she
was informed that she
no longer had a job.
>>O'BRIEN: I remember that.
And I was just
being funny, really.
The reading that she got
did indicate that there was
something going to fall apart.
And we were just demoing my
iPhone app, the Visionary I
Ching.
And I didn't put a
lot of import on it
or consider it to be
extremely meaningful.
But it was amazing that
it was so right on.
>>REGINA: Within 24 hours, which
begs the question-- chicken
or egg?
This device-- and this
is what's fascinating.
We're going into a separate
conversation in a minute.
But it's mind boggling to me
that an animate, organic thing,
such as ourselves with
our field of consciousness
can interact with an inanimate
object to this kind of effect,
where its
[? impression ?] somehow
reflecting from our own
aura what's about to occur.
>>O'BRIEN: Well, it's all
about synchronicity-- the way
the coins land, the way
the cards get shuffled
and picked is related to
everything else that's
happening at that
moment in time.
And presumably the
archetypes that come up
are related to something
that's happening inside
of the person who's picking
the cards or casting the coins.
And in that case, she was
very concerned about a review
that she was going to
be having the next day.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>O'BRIEN: And this--
>>REGINA: So the
app picked it up.
>>O'BRIEN: Right.
Right.
But she's the one who cast it.
>>REGINA: She cast it.
>>O'BRIEN: That's what she got.
And it gave some
advice, but we never
looked at it that closely.
But--
>>REGINA: We all had
a giggle over it.
And she goes, oh boy, I'm really
nervous now about the review.
>>O'BRIEN: Right.
>>REGINA: But anyway,
it just fascinates me
how-- which makes sense,
really, when you're
talking about
consciousness, and we
have an electrical component.
And that electrical
component can reach out
to other electrical components,
be they carbon or silicon.
Doesn't really matter.
Right?
>>O'BRIEN: Right.
Right.
Doesn't matter whether the
technology is a book and coins,
or the technology
is cardboard cards.
We can use technology--
we can use it as a tool
to stimulate our intuition.
And that was always the approach
that I took to divination.
And when I built Tarot.com and
IChing.com and AOL Horoscopes,
I basically always
took that attitude--
that divination is a way
to stimulate the intuition
to think outside the
box around problems
that logic can't handle.
So it was never about
fortune telling.
And it wasn't about even
telling you what to do.
It was sort of like giving you
a sense of which way the wind is
blowing based on a coincidence.
But let's say a
meaningful coincidence,
which is the definition
of synchronicity that
happened as a result of
this action that you took.
And the reason I
wrote the new book--
>>REGINA: Which was
my next question.
Go for it.
>>O'BRIEN: Well it's sort of
a natural extension of that.
>>REGINA: It is.
>>O'BRIEN: Because by defining
divination in this way--
this kind of Jungian way,
where I'm talking about
archetypes-- each one of the 78
cards in Tarot is an archetype.
Each one of the 12 signs and
the 10 planets are archetypes.
Mars means aggressive
or assertive energy.
Venus means what you're
attracted to, et cetera.
And in the I Ching,
you've got 64 archetypes.
So I wanted to write a book
that helped people understand
that better-- what's going on.
But this book is not
about divination per se.
This book is about the
function of divination, which
is intuitive decision making.
And I positioned
divination as just one tool
that can help you access
your intuitive intelligence.
And the book has got like
six tools for doing this.
In part two of the
book, only one chapter
has anything to do
with divination.
So I'm really getting to
the meat of the matter--
>>REGINA: Yes, you are.
>>O'BRIEN: But the meat of
the matter is decision making.
It's the most
important thing we do,
and the big decisions
require a lot of intuition.
>>REGINA: They do.
And yet in our
culture, the process
of making decisions-- especially
in larger corporations--
is absolutely brutal.
It's reductionist.
>>O'BRIEN: Right.
>>REGINA: Old paradigm.
Down to nothing but numbers.
Not taking the energy of
the individuals in the room
into consideration,
which is a dire mistake.
And you see it happen in almost
all corporate-- virtually all
corporations.
>>O'BRIEN: Right.
>>REGINA: Not taking
what an energy
field brings to the equation or
a wisdom brings to an equation.
Just numbers.
>>O'BRIEN: Yeah.
I mean, in the corporate
environment there's
a heavy bias towards logic.
And logic is a very good
tool, but it's not good enough
if you want to break
a paradigm, if you
want to invent
something or innovate.
Like take Steve
Jobs, for instance.
Part of the reason
he was such a genius
was he was willing to
think outside the box.
He famously said, all
the marketing research
I could buy-- and I
could buy a lot of it--
is never going to indicate
what a success the iPhone is
going to be.
>>REGINA: That's right
>>O'BRIEN: And the CEO of
Sony said the same thing
about the Sony Walkman
back in the day.
Because people don't
know how they're
going to react to something
they've never seen before.
So if you really want to invent
something and break new ground
and change the paradigm, you
have to rely on intuition.
And the enemies of intuition
are fear and confusion.
>>REGINA: We're going to
get into a lot of factors
that are the enemy of it.
>>O'BRIEN: Right.
>>REGINA: And an over
dependence on logic.
>>O'BRIEN: Right.
>>REGINA: Because,
really, you said this
in a more elegant
way in the book--
that logic should
theoretically be
the slave to the higher
mind and the intuition,
not the other way around.
>>O'BRIEN: Right.
That's what Einstein said.
There's a very famous quote that
logic should lead and-- I mean,
intuition should lead.
And logic should be the servant.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>O'BRIEN: And I've
sort of mapped out
a way of using both
of those things
in a balanced way for the
sake of those groundbreaking
or life-changing
decisions that we all
have to make at some point.
>>REGINA: Well and
right here, you're
talking about key moments.
You were talking about Jeff
Bezos' commencement speech.
Do you remember that from
the book and what he said?
Because that was about
as the best advice
he could have ever given
to a graduating class.
Talk about that for
a little bit and tell
why you put it in the book.
>>O'BRIEN: He's
basically summing up--
>>REGINA: And who he is
for anyone that may not
know who he is.
>>O'BRIEN: Well he's
the founder of Amazon.
And he gave a commencement
speech at Princeton.
And he said, when
you look back--
when you're 80 years
old, and you look back
on your life, the
things that you're
going to remember the most and
the most significant things
that happened in
your life are going
to be the decisions you made.
And that life is the
sum of our choices.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>O'BRIEN: And that's
the theme of the book.
Nothing is more important to
your success and happiness
than the quality of
the decisions you make.
>>REGINA: OK.
Now that brings me
to something that's
kind of counter-intuitive
to that.
So I know people who are junkies
for divination, for example.
They're junkies for psychics.
>>O'BRIEN: Right.
>>REGINA: And what Bezos
and what you are saying
is, no, it's down
to your decision.
And you're using
these things lightly
as a tool to guide intuition.
But what happens when
we tip to the other side
and become junkies for every
form of intuition other
than our own?
Are you saying that-- maybe--
that everything around us
reflecting back is part of us?
I don't know.
But you see what
I'm saying, which
almost becomes dependent
on the outside just
like the other paradigm.
>>O'BRIEN: Right.
I think the problem is
we can make bad decisions
in a number of ways.
But to break it down into
the two primary ways,
we can either be overly
analytical-- in which case,
the common attitude that you'll
see in a corporate environment
is well I need more information.
You know, there's always a
need for more information.
You can never have
too much information.
And yet that results
in procrastinating
and often missing a
window of opportunity.
Because there is no
end to the information
that might be coming
or what might happen.
And then the other extreme
is to make decisions
on an emotional or
impulsive basis.
And a lot of times, people
will use these tools,
which are meant to
stimulate the intuition,
as something that they're
delegating decision
making power to.
And I don't agree with that.
When I ran Tarot.com, we
had six million members.
And there was a lot of
people who would never
make any decision without
consulting-- without giving
themselves a tarot reading or an
I Ching reading on the website.
And I used to think, God--
I was conflicted about it.
>>REGINA: Yes.
That's what I'm asking.
Yeah.
>>O'BRIEN: On the one hand, I'm
making money when they do that.
But on the other
hand, I don't want
to create that
kind of dependency.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>O'BRIEN: Because they're over
using or misusing the tool.
They're looking
for someone else--
>>REGINA: To make the
decision for them.
>>O'BRIEN: To tell
them the answers.
Right.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>O'BRIEN: And so they're
not getting empowered.
Their own intuition is
not getting empowered
when they do that.
So I look at divination or
going to some kind of intuitive
reader or something like that--
that can be a helpful thing as
long as you remember that
they're working for you,
not the other way around.
>>REGINA: So it
should be used really
as validation for
something you're
already seeding, so to speak.
>>O'BRIEN: Or a way to
stimulate a new idea.
>>REGINA: Or maybe
contend with what
seems to be confusing within
the decision you've made.
>>O'BRIEN: Well a lot of times
we tend to go black and white.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>O'BRIEN: We're either
going to fight or flee.
You know?
And there's a third option.
And there's always more than two
alternatives to any decision,
and we tend to forget that.
We get polarized, and we think
it's either going to be black,
or it's going to be white.
And I've either got to do
this or not do it at all.
And there's a whole
range of gray scale
that might be more appropriate.
Lot of times the
best decision to make
is to do nothing at all.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>O'BRIEN: So we tend to forget
about that, because we're so
all or nothing.
And we want--
>>REGINA: OK, and that brings
into the next question, which
is-- because of the speed at
which everything is happening,
information, decisions having
to be made, data overload
and so forth, we've become
an extraordinarily impatient
culture.
Right?
>>O'BRIEN: Right.
>>REGINA: And so we want
instant gratification.
And so the need to have
to force decisions-- let's
talk about what impatience
means to the decision making
process, which is endemic to
the Western world anyway now.
>>O'BRIEN: Right.
Well in the visionary
decision making system
that I outline in the book,
step one is self-knowledge.
Step one is being
clear about what
you want, being clear about
what your highest priority is.
There's two questions
that you have
to make for a
strategic decision.
Now I should clarify
here, Regina,
that we're not talking about
all the decisions we make.
There's mundane decisions
about which toothpaste to buy
or which way to turn.
Then there's tactical
decisions which
you use to employ a strategy
that you've come to.
But the strategic decisions--
we've only got about a dozen
of them in a lifetime.
>>REGINA: The big decisions.
>>O'BRIEN: Yeah.
Should we get married?
Should we have kids?
Should I change jobs?
Should we move to Boulder?
Whatever.
These are big decisions
that can change a life.
And people need some help
in making these decisions.
And they need to take some time.
So you can't be impatient
about that kind of decision.
That is one of the ways
that intuition gets blocked.
I like to think of intuition
as a little-- well they
call it the sixth sense.
And so if you look at the
hand, and you think-- the palm
of the hand, that's your mind.
And these five fingers,
those are the five senses.
They're like huge antenna, and
they're bringing in sensations.
They're bringing in impressions
through the visual, auditory,
et cetera.
Well, imagine that there's
this tiny little sixth one--
and it's a small one-- and
that's the sixth sense.
That's the intuition.
It's an instinct.
It's a sense.
But it's calibrated
to a very fine signal.
And it's easily drowned
out by the noise
of all of our preoccupations
with the other five.
And it's also blocked by
containment domes of fear
and other strong emotions.
And people often make a decision
based on the strongest emotion
that they have.
And I kind of have a
counter-intuitive rule
in the book, which is the
stronger the feeling, the less
trustworthy it is.
>>REGINA: OK.
That's one thing I wanted
to get into in a minute.
Finish what you're
saying, and then I'm
going to take you there.
>>O'BRIEN: You people have
a hard time with that one.
So the whole thing about
being impatient and being busy
and attending to all of
the thinking-- of course,
in addition to the
five senses, you've
got the clattering, the
internal clattering,
of the mind, which is
constantly thinking.
So all of that gets in the
way of the kind of clarity
that you need to start with.
You have to be really clear
about-- well what do you want?
What are the values behind that?
What's important to you?
So that you can answer the
two essential questions
to a strategic decision.
Question number one
is the what question.
What is the best next move?
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>O'BRIEN: That I can make.
>>REGINA: And that
is really critical.
Sometimes we're
jumping forward trying
to make the big decision.
And we're missing that there
might be a couple little steps
that have to occur before that.
>>O'BRIEN: Right.
And then the second question is
the timing question, which is--
and when should I make it?
When should I pull the trigger?
When should I execute?
And that is like 100% intuitive.
There's no formula.
There's no logical
formula that's
going to solve the
timing question.
So we have to create enough
space to get to the answer
to question number one first.
And we can't do that if we're
so darn busy and preoccupied
with all of the input and all
of the crazy thinking going
on all the time.
>>REGINA: And let's go
back to the notion of fear
that you were talking about.
Fear is a massive block.
And a lot of the
people that I know
that are junkies for
readings and-- I mean,
they don't make their own
mindset because of fear.
>>O'BRIEN: A lot
of times people get
a reading, because they
want their emotional bias
to be confirmed.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>O'BRIEN: They've already
made up their mind.
And they know what
they want to do,
and they have a really
strong feeling about it.
And so they want some psychic
or some tarot card reading
to validate that for
them and tell them
what they want to hear.
>>REGINA: Mhm.
>>O'BRIEN: So we
have to get clear
of the fear obstacle and these
strong emotional reactions.
>>REGINA: If you're coming
to the table with fear--
to any kind of a reader
or to Tarot.com or I Ching
app, how does that skew things?
>>O'BRIEN: Well it's going
to affect everything.
But it's not just fear.
It's any strong emotion.
Like, it could be greed.
>>REGINA: Mhm.
>>O'BRIEN: They say the
market runs on greed and fear.
>>REGINA: That's true.
Yeah.
>>O'BRIEN: As long
as you have-- as long
as you're in the thrall
of a strong emotion,
you're thinking with the
limbic brain rather than
the neocortex.
And you're not going to
make a good decision.
Now the intuition also
involves the limbic brain,
because it often appears
in the form of a feeling.
We like to say a gut feeling.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>O'BRIEN: But it's
a subtle feeling.
It's a kind of a
still, small voice.
It's not the overpowering,
commanding feeling
of fear or greed or lust or
any number of things that's
going to possibly motivate us.
So if you're in the thrall
of a strong emotion,
that's the time to
take a time out.
That's not a good time
to make a decision.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>O'BRIEN: And I
think we've all had
the experience of having
a big fight that we really
didn't need to have.
And it really didn't
help anything.
But we were just so caught up
in the emotion of the moment,
and we couldn't step back
and just kind of simmer down.
And chapter six in
the book has a lot
of techniques for doing that.
So that this intuitive antenna
can get some reception.
There's too much noise.
It's sort of like you're
trying to download something,
and everybody else in your
building is downloading movies,
and you can't get any reception.
So it's like that.
We need to clear the path.
You can't force
intuition to happen.
>>REGINA: No.
>>O'BRIEN: You can just create
the space for it to happen.
And that's an art.
And that's why I wrote the book.
It's because I want people
to make better decisions.
You'd think that as a
species with the ability
to visualize different
possible outcomes to decisions
we might make or
choices we might take,
you'd think we would
be really good at this.
>>REGINA: You'd think.
Except we're motivated by
such a kind of fearful choices
in life, like, oh do I do this?
>>O'BRIEN: We are
terrible at them.
>>REGINA: Do I eat?
We're horrible, yeah.
>>O'BRIEN: So I'm trying to
figure it out for myself,
but I'm also trying to figure
it out for my grandson.
And I'm trying to figure
it out for everybody.
So that's why I wrote the book.
Because I don't
think anything is
more important than the quality
of the decisions we make.
>>REGINA: I agree with you.
Life is nothing but a series of
choices-- from the moment we're
able to make our own choices.
>>O'BRIEN: And that's what
Jeff Bezos was saying.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
I agree 100%.
It falls on us.
>>O'BRIEN: Right.
>>REGINA: We'd to blame
someone else for what happens,
but the reality is somewhere
in there-- subconsciously
or otherwise-- we
have attached to
or made some kind of decision
that's creating that outcome.
And as you were talking
about-- a little bit ago--
about the need to kind of kick
back and wait and not follow
the strongest urges,
at other times
there is that-- we might call
it that funny feeling-- that's
happening that's more subtle
than a direct emotion that
has a sense of urgency
attached to it.
I need to go talk
to that person now.
>>O'BRIEN: Right.
Yeah.
>>REGINA: And that's valid.
>>O'BRIEN: Yeah.
>>REGINA: That's different
than, oh my god, I
better talk to that person now.
What if I don't
get another chance?
Two different things.
>>O'BRIEN: This gets us to a
better deeper understanding
of the synchronicity principle,
which Carl Jung discovered back
in the day.
And there's a whole section
in the book on what that means
and how it works.
But you can sort of boil down
the synchronicity principle
to the perception that there are
no accidents-- that everything
happens for a reason.
Like for instance, I
remember back in the day
when I was in sales
a long time ago,
and I was just really
kind of nervous,
because I had teed
up this prospect.
And I really wanted to
close this big deal.
And I was anxious.
And I was impatient.
And so I found myself
calling or trying
to make that call before
I was really ready
and certainly before I was calm.
And come to find out I
dialed a wrong number.
And then I realized--
>>REGINA: Thank goodness.
>>O'BRIEN: --oh,
that's the universe.
>>REGINA: It's telling
you slow down, kid.
>>O'BRIEN: Yeah,
it's telling me I'm
not supposed to make
that call right now.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Yeah.
>>O'BRIEN: So if we learn
to recognize synchronicities
and interpret them for
what it might mean for us,
that can be very, very helpful
every day of our lives.
>>REGINA: You bet.
I listen to that stuff.
If I know I'm about to
do-- if I'm not sure,
or if, like you say, if I have
too much of a feeling running
one way or another, and
I attempt to do something
and I'm blocked-- I get it.
Back off.
Let's just back off
and rethink this.
Give it a rest.
Wait till tomorrow.
Whatever.
>>O'BRIEN: Right.
>>REGINA: And it usually turns
out to be the exact right thing
to have done.
>>O'BRIEN: Right.
Yeah.
>>REGINA: And it's
amazing how creative--
you can call them the universe,
universal intelligence,
the field, you can call
them your guides or angels--
are in giving us diverse
ways of creating blockages
if you're paying attention
when the moment isn't right.
>>O'BRIEN: Right.
Exactly.
Learning how to wait
for the right time--
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>O'BRIEN: --is a real skill.
And if you remember
the book "Siddhartha,"
which was about the
story of the Buddha.
There were the three
skills that he had.
He could meditate.
He could-- I think it was fast.
And he could wait.
So in other words, he had
the skill of letting go,
but he also had the
skill of patience.
And this is something--
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>O'BRIEN: --that
we can develop.
When we realize that those
strategic decisions in our life
are so important, that
they're not worth rushing.
There's just no percentage
in rushing them.
And yet we want to make
them in a timely manner.
So it's kind of a paradox.
It's an art.
It's not a science.
And I don't have an
iron clad formula here.
>>REGINA: No.
>>O'BRIEN: But
there's a lot of--
>>REGINA: But we each have
to listen in our own way.
And we have to have faith
in what it is we're seeing
or we're experiencing.
On the subject of rushing,
this just popped into my mind.
I don't even know if it's
relevant, but it's funny.
Well it's not funny actually,
but it's interesting.
I was with my son in Paris.
We're rushing to try to get the
commuter train back to where we
were staying in the Left Bank.
And rushing was
the keyword there.
So jumped onto a train.
Looked at the signs.
Now, I've never been lost in
the subway-- metro-- in Paris.
Really, I know it pretty well.
And so I looked.
OK let's go.
So I ran across the
platform, got the train.
I thought, wait a minute.
The next stop?
We're at the wrong stop.
We were going the
opposite direction.
My eyes saw the correct
sign, because it
was imprinted in my brain.
I thought, that's not possible.
How did this happen?
So I said, come on.
We jumped off, went back
across the platform,
tried to get back where
we were to begin with
to get on the train going
the other direction.
And when we got to the
place we needed to be,
we came running down the
stairs and ran for the train,
and the door closed.
Literally a couple steps.
>>O'BRIEN: I hate it
when that happens.
>>REGINA: Well this time
it was a good thing.
Because in the news,
you'll remember.
That's the train that
was blown up in Paris.
>>O'BRIEN: Isn't that amazing?
>>REGINA: And not
only that-- it was
toward the back of the train.
And I didn't know
initially what happened.
We're hot and sweaty,
and we're waiting.
And what are all
these people doing?
Where are the trains?
And someone's speaking in
French over the system.
And I thought, oh my god.
What just happened there?
How did my urgency created the
need for us to miss that train?
Actually that's what happened.
>>O'BRIEN: Right.
When we call-- there's
a chapter in the book
on belief engineering.
And there's certain
beliefs that we
can cultivate that
are going to help us
in situations like that.
Like for instance, if we
believe that everything
happens for a reason--
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>O'BRIEN: And we
can remember that--
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>O'BRIEN: In a
situation like that,
then we remember the time when
somebody broke up with us,
and then we found out
a few months later
that they were crazy.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>O'BRIEN: Or any number
of things like that.
So when we get set
back, or we get
blocked, or there's obstacles in
our way, a lot of times there's
some fantastic benefit--
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>O'BRIEN: --that
we don't even know.
Maybe we need to go
down a different route.
Maybe we need to go in an
entirely different direction.
Maybe we would have wasted a
whole lot of time and energy
and money and God knows--
>>REGINA: Or maybe we
would have been killed.
>>O'BRIEN: Exactly.
>>REGINA: In the case that day.
>>O'BRIEN: Yeah, exactly.
>>REGINA: I just kept going
over it in my head thinking,
I saw the sign.
I know I saw the sign right.
>>O'BRIEN: It's so hard
to remember that when
you're frustrated--
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>O'BRIEN: --which
is a strong feeling.
When you're in an
emotional reaction,
it's really hard to
maintain perspective.
And that's why I
have a lot of things
in the book on how to do
that-- how to intervene
and how to take a time out and
how to use mindfulness in order
to remember, wait.
What do I know?
Maybe there's a good
reason this is happening.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>O'BRIEN: You know?
>>REGINA: And I have
total faith in that.
I do believe
virtually everything--
there are some odd things
that happen in life.
But most all of it,
there's a reason for it.
I don't even resist at all.
>>O'BRIEN: That's beautiful.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
It's been a good way to live,
and I've enjoyed my life
and created what I've wanted.
For the most part, for a
long time now by doing that.
>>O'BRIEN: That's what happens.
That's why the title of the book
is "Great Decisions, Perfect
Timing."
When you understand that perfect
timing is happening whether you
cooperate with it or not,
that's an article of faith
that really is supportive.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>O'BRIEN: You know, everything
happens for a reason.
There are no accidents.
Everything happens
in its own good time
whether you try to
force it or not.
Where we get into a problem is
where we try to force things,
and our ego become so
attached to creating
some particular
kind of result, it
might not be the best
thing for us at all.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
That attachment.
Because our mind
thinks it knows what
it wants when actually
something way more appropriate
might be waiting there for us.
>>O'BRIEN: Right.
And that is a big obstacle to
intuition and good decision
making-- is
addictions or craving
or these emotional
attachments to what we think
is going to be good for us.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
OK, so there are
a few areas here.
You already mentioned before
a little self-knowledge goes
a long way in making decisions.
So do the stages of life.
We make different
kinds of decisions.
>>O'BRIEN: Right.
>>REGINA: And you talk about
the three stages of life.
Go through them and why
you wrote about those.
>>O'BRIEN: Well I
think that we have
different kinds of decisions
to make at the different stages
of life.
And I divide life
into three stages.
Now there's a lot of systems
for dividing the transitions
and passages in life.
In my view, I do it according
to the Saturn cycle.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>O'BRIEN: So in other
words, you've probably heard
the expression--
>>REGINA: Saturn return.
>>O'BRIEN: Saturn return.
OK, that happens when
you're 29 or around there.
And so the first 29
years of your life,
I call that stage one
or self-discovery.
And that's when you--
that's the student stage.
That's when you learn who
you are, what you're good at,
and what you like to do
or what you love to do.
And how do you learn that?
By trying things, by trying--
>>REGINA: By making mistakes.
>>O'BRIEN: --by trying
a lot of things.
Yes exactly.
Trial and error.
I tell these kids.
I say, you're 19, 20 years old.
Don't feel so much pressure.
It's just wrong that
you have to feel
pressured into choosing a
career that you're going
to go $50,000 into debt behind.
And you don't even--
>>REGINA: And you're a kid.
>>O'BRIEN: Your brain isn't
even fully developed yet.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>O'BRIEN: Or don't make
any lifetime commitments
before you're 29.
That's basically my advice.
Job hop.
Have a lot of-- date
a lot of people.
Figure out what you're good
at and what you like to do.
And then there's stage two,
which is the builder stage.
And that's when you do
the thing you're good at
or that you love to do.
And you're as
productive as possible,
and you learn to provide for
yourself and maybe others,
maybe family, or whatever.
And I don't care what
it has to do with-- this
is a book about success,
but I don't define success
in any kind of limited terms.
It's not necessarily financial.
It's not necessarily business.
It could be raising a family.
It's whatever you love to do.
It's whatever you are called
upon to do in your life.
And so that's the builder phase.
And you develop competency.
So in stage one, you
develop some skills.
You try things, and you
see what you like to do,
and you develop skills
as much as you can.
In the builder stage,
you amplify those skills,
and you provide for
yourself and others.
And then around age
58 to 60, it depends--
these are fuzzy boundaries.
But stage three
starts, and that's
the patron stage or the sponsor
or philanthropist or mentor.
That's the stage of
giving back and supporting
future generations.
That's the stage of
creating a legacy.
>>REGINA: OK, now I'm going
to bring a couple things up.
One, on that second
stage you're talking
about-- even the
first stage-- I love
this quote you put in by
Rumi, which is respond
to every call that excites your
spirit, which to me is the best
mantra one could have.
I mean that should be
writ large as they say.
>>O'BRIEN: Right.
>>REGINA: On our windshield
when we get in the car
or on our mirror in the morning.
>>O'BRIEN: In the book, I
tell the story of-- there's
a chapter called self-knowledge.
And I tell the story of
how I had two fascinations
during my stage one.
There were two things that
utterly fascinated me.
One of them was
the I Ching, which
I learned about when I was 19--
>>REGINA: To a girl.
>>O'BRIEN: Yeah.
It was a coed at Berkeley.
I was an undergrad.
And then the second
one was software which
I discovered a few years later.
Now this was in the
day when we didn't--
>>REGINA: A computer
was the size of a room.
>>O'BRIEN: Exactly.
There were no-- Apple
didn't exist yet.
But I played a computer game
on this ginormous machine
called a mini-computer.
That would take up a whole room.
>>REGINA: Half a room?
Yeah, a whole room.
>>O'BRIEN: Yeah.
It had less power than
my iPhone has today.
>>REGINA: Isn't
that just shocking?
>>O'BRIEN: And I
played this game,
and it turned me on to the
whole concept of software.
I mean, I've never
been a big gamer.
I'm not against it, but I've
just never been a big game
player on computers.
But--
>>REGINA: What kind of
game was it, by the way?
>>O'BRIEN: It was a space--
it was called Space War.
And it was done at MIT.
And there's this
tiny little screen,
which is an oscilloscope driven
by this humongous machine.
And we would go
there late at night.
And we'd smoke some pot and
have a really good time.
>>REGINA: Were you blowing
stuff up, I assume?
Space wars.
>>O'BRIEN: Yeah, that's right.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>O'BRIEN: There were
two little spaceships
that would fight with each
other-- very, very primitive.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>O'BRIEN: There was
a few pixels each,
that kind of thing.
And my friend was the programmer
at this computer center,
so he had the keys.
So we would go there--
>>REGINA: He was smoking
weed playing games.
>>O'BRIEN: Yeah, we
would get really high,
and we'd play this game.
And I remember thinking, wow
this is really phenomenal
that somebody could
write code and deliver
an interactive experience.
And I started having visions
of multimedia in the early '70s
when that happened.
I thought, oh I wonder
what else could be done.
Of course, that was 20
years before we had CD-ROMs.
But it was just a
fascination of mine,
and I made a
commitment to-- I just
was so fascinated with
software, that I decided to get
into the software business.
And that's when I started
out as a secretary.
>>REGINA: I was going to say.
You had secretarial skills you
had to develop along the way.
>>O'BRIEN: I could
type 70 words a minute.
>>REGINA: That's right.
>>O'BRIEN: And my
first job at software
was I was the secretary
at that computer center,
because I was fascinated.
And so in this chapter in the
book about self-discovery,
I talk about discover
your fascinations.
And that's what Rumi
is talking about.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>O'BRIEN: The things
that excite your spirit.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>O'BRIEN: It's going to
be different for everybody.
And I counsel people--
follow your fascinations.
Figure out what they are.
Allow yourself to have them.
If you put yourself
lockstep into some program
where you're going to become a
lawyer because your father is
a lawyer, or you're
going to become
a doctor because your
mother is a doctor,
and she wants you
to be-- then you're
never going to have
a chance to discover
what truly fascinates you.
Or you're liable to discount it.
15 years later, after
I started in software,
I was the VP of marketing for a
software company by that point.
And I found myself
using the I Ching
a little more often than usual.
And I thought, God,
it sure would be nice
if I could do this
on the computer.
And then all of a sudden, bing.
I remembered my visions of
multimedia that had fascinated
me in the first place.
And multimedia
still wasn't there.
This was 1988.
There were no CD-ROMs
till about '93 or '94.
But I created this little-- I
took my entire life savings,
because I was so enamored
of this intersection
between the two things
that fascinated me.
And so when I was writing
this book, I remembered that.
I thought, that's what
these kids in stage one
need to be allowed
to do-- to discover
something that fascinates them.
Or maybe a couple things
that fascinate them.
And so that's really what
Rumi is talking about
and I think it's so important.
>>REGINA: Yeah, it doesn't
mean self-indulgence.
>>O'BRIEN: No.
>>REGINA: It's what really
gets your jets going.
>>O'BRIEN: Right.
>>REGINA: You know?
Your curiosity is up.
Your excited time
passes quickly.
>>O'BRIEN: And it doesn't
matter if you think
it's ever going to make money.
>>REGINA: No.
Now that's the real key that
has just crippled humanity.
>>O'BRIEN: Well I had a day job.
I learned some skills working
at the computer center.
I learned some marketing
skills, and I took some classes,
and I developed a career as a
software marketing specialist
before I ever took off
as an entrepreneur.
But when I created the
first divination software
in 1988, which was an I Ching
program called Synchronicity,
I never imagined
that it was ever
going to be very lucrative.
I mean, I was so far
ahead of my time.
In fact, I Ching software is
the least remunerative thing
I've ever done.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>O'BRIEN: Tarot was
20 times more popular.
And Astrology was 20 times
more popular than that.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>O'BRIEN: And that kind of
just happened organically,
but I had such a love--
I had such a fascination,
and I had some savings.
You know, I think in '88 I
had like $40,000 in the bank.
And I spent it all
to make a prototype,
because I got so
inflamed with enthusiasm
because my spirit was excited,
that I created this thing even
though there was no reason
to believe it would ever
amount to anything financially.
My motto was at the time-- when
people would say, why the hell
are you doing this?
You have a secure career.
You're making good money.
And I said, well I don't know.
It's like wherever God
drags me, I will follow.
I don't know what else to say.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>O'BRIEN: I just feel
compelled to do it,
because it's a
fascination of mine.
>>REGINA: But see the
thing is most people now--
especially in the economy of
the last decade or so-- are
so exhausted after they're
performing their day job--
maybe two day jobs, maybe two
day jobs and you come home
to kids--
>>O'BRIEN: Right.
>>REGINA: --that little
voice, that desire,
that thing that
speaks from your soul
can't be heard out
of pure exhaustion.
>>O'BRIEN: Right.
No question.
Yeah I was very lucky.
>>REGINA: And then
finding your way out
of that, that's where
most people find--
a lot of people that find
their way to Gaiam TV,
it's for that reason.
It's like, this isn't it.
I know there's more out there.
But then you're so kind
of vested in survival
at that point, trying
to learn, which
is why you wrote this beautiful
book, that there is always
time to make a new
set of decisions
if you can just be quiet
enough to hear oneself.
>>O'BRIEN: You know,
this book doesn't really
tackle the problem of people
who are so deeply underwater
that they can't see straight.
Because they're so stressed out.
It's not--
>>REGINA: Using intuition
almost seems a luxury that--
>>O'BRIEN: Right.
>>REGINA: --they can't
even follow up on.
>>O'BRIEN: They
don't have the time,
and they don't have the energy.
And the only thing I can say
is that sometimes there's
a reason for that, too.
Things get so stressful that we
basically take some bold risk
in order to get away from it.
But there's a lot of-- it's
just a shame that people
have to work that hard.
I worked 70 hour
weeks for 20 years
as a bootstrap entrepreneur when
I started that I Ching company.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>O'BRIEN: But at
least I was getting
the benefit of doing
something that fascinated me.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>O'BRIEN: That I was
enthusiastic about.
>>REGINA: It was your creation.
>>O'BRIEN: And you know, I
think that there's probably ways
that people can move
towards that if they
start to discover who they are.
A lot of people
never had a chance
to discover who they are.
>>REGINA: That's right.
>>O'BRIEN: The people
who are starving
in India-- they didn't really
have the luxury of a stage one.
>>REGINA: No.
>>O'BRIEN: So the book's
not written for everybody,
but it is written to try to
help us go to the next level.
Those of us that have a day job
that is supporting us-- we're
always going to have
a day job, by the way.
This idea that we're going to
be able to make a living only
doing what we love
and nothing else
is a little bit of a pipe dream.
I have a day job right now.
My day job is managing
my investments.
I mean, I'm not going
to complain about that.
Britney Spears has a day job.
She's got to manage
her managers.
She may have 25 people
managing her affairs,
but she's got to manage them.
So everybody's got to pay taxes.
Everybody's got
stuff they have to do
that they don't want to do.
I call that your day job.
Every artist has a day job.
I can't tell you how many
artists are dreaming of the day
when they don't have
to have a day job.
And I tell them, hey, you're
always going to have a day job.
It's OK.
Just accept the fact that you're
always going to have a day job,
but don't let it stop
you from discovering
what's inside of you
that you can get excited.
>>REGINA: That's a
really key point.
Now, after that
phase, after stage two
where you're really starting
to put your skills into action
and you're supporting
yourself and perhaps others,
then you have this line drawn
right around the age of 60.
Now, it was once
upon a time, that
was kind of coming close to
retirement age for people.
>>O'BRIEN: Right.
>>REGINA: That's really
more middle age now.
>>O'BRIEN: Right.
>>REGINA: And a lot of
people-- 60 and 70--
are like everyone
else, scrambling just
to keep a roof over their head.
>>O'BRIEN: There's
a lot of people
that are going to be
working for a long time.
>>REGINA: A long time.
>>O'BRIEN:
Particularly the way we
have things structured
in our society now.
And at the same time, however,
the principles of stage three
do apply.
Everybody's going
to leave a legacy.
>>REGINA: Mhm.
>>O'BRIEN: And I just-- I have a
radio show in Portland, Oregon.
I've had it now for 30 years.
And I interviewed a
guy a couple months ago
who wrote a book
about creating legacy.
And I thought, oh
that's interesting.
>>REGINA: What's his name?
>>O'BRIEN: His
name is Rick Wijo.
Joe
>>REGINA: OK.
>>O'BRIEN: I'll tell you later.
>>O'BRIEN: And I
thought-- and he had been
a corporate guy for 35 years.
And three things
happened for him.
He got prostate cancer-- was
diagnosed with prostate cancer.
He had a grandchild,
and he found
kind of a family heirloom--
it wasn't really an heirloom.
It was a coin collection
that his grandfather
had left for him.
And it's up in the attic,
and he and his wife
are cleaning out the attic.
And they're thinking,
wow we can sell
some of this stuff on eBay.
And they're just
figuring out how
to get rid of all this stuff.
Right?
And so he's figuring
out, wow, I think
we can get something for
this coin collection.
And his wife goes,
well honey that's--
>>REGINA: Your dad
left that for you.
>>O'BRIEN: Maybe you
should leave that.
And this opened his mind,
and he started exploring
this whole thing about legacy.
What is legacy?
And he started to
think, it's not
just what you leave behind
that your descendants have
to sort out according to
your will or whatever.
It's actually
something that we can
be creating in the last
quarter of our life.
And at that time, I hadn't
finished writing this book yet.
I was just about done.
I had, like, two more days
where I could edit things.
And so, I thought, well
that's what I'm doing.
That's what this book is about.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>O'BRIEN: I don't even
care about making profits
off this book.
So I dedicated the
book to my grandson
and all future decision makers.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>O'BRIEN: And it
just really kind
of clarified things for me.
And then I realized everybody
can create a legacy-- no matter
how busy they are.
They can at least
think like that,
and they can start to consider--
>>REGINA: Oh yeah, even
if your grandmother
left her collection of
recipes to your mother, that's
a wonderful legacy.
>>O'BRIEN: Or even if
you write a letter--
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>O'BRIEN: --to your niece.
You know, a legacy letter
they call it in his book.
But I was very inspired by that
and by the spirit of generosity
that comes from that.
>>REGINA: That's where we're
going next-- sacred economy.
>>O'BRIEN: Right.
>>REGINA: And what
real wealth is--
accumulation versus generosity.
And you're very generous.
You're a generous person.
You offer a lot of your
work, like, the I Ching app.
It's out there.
You can download it free.
So let's talk about
what sacred economy is.
>>O'BRIEN: Well in that
book by Charles Eisenstein,
he points out that in
traditional societies--
in the tribal societies,
the hunter gatherer type
societies-- the
wealthiest person was
the one that gave the most,
that threw the biggest feasts.
And he tells a story about
how one tribal chief got
kind of upset, because
a woman in the tribe
had given a bigger
feast than he had given.
And so it's all about
the giving economy.
And when you feel interrelated
to everybody in the group,
that really works
because everybody
feels a sense of gratitude
and a sense of obligation
to give back.
And if you ever
need help, you're
going to be able to get
it when you need it.
And they say that that's really
the greatest security in life.
It's your community.
It's a network of your friends--
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>O'BRIEN: --and the
people that care about you.
Because we all
depend on each other.
He talks about the
gifting economy.
And then I thought about how
I had actually inadvertently
experienced that myself.
Because when I did Tarot.com,
it was such a gamble
because it was new.
And I had no idea if this
thing was going to survive.
I was out on a limb 110%.
And I was having
nightmares about--
>>REGINA: Did you still
have your day job?
>>O'BRIEN: No.
It's hard to have a day
job when you're working--
>>REGINA: When you're working 70
hours a week on the new thing.
>>O'BRIEN: We were
barely making ends meet.
We were eking it out,
but it was really tough.
And I had nightmares of
bankruptcy quite a bit.
But what I did at the end
of after about eight months
of operations, I had
invented this currency
called karma coins.
And they were like
virtual tokens.
And you could use them--
you could buy karma coins.
And if you bought
them in quantity,
it was like getting a discount.
And you could use them to give
yourself a tarot card reading
or give yourself
an I Ching reading
or get an astrology report.
And so we would give
you 100 karma coins
just for signing up.
So we would give you 100.
Now that wasn't generous.
That was an incentive.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>O'BRIEN: But then
the first New Year's
that came around, I said to my
staff, I said, you know what?
We've got 100,000 people
in our database now.
And I would like to give every
single one of them 50 karma
coins for New Year's and wish
them a happy and prosperous New
Year's.
And I said, it's going
to ding our numbers.
We're going to have--
>>REGINA: You're going
to have bad months.
>>O'BRIEN: It's going
to hurt financially,
but I want to do it and
just see what happens.
Oh my god.
It not only didn't hurt our
numbers, it tripled our sales.
And I thought, wow.
And so then I started
really doing it.
I said, OK from now on,
on anybody's birthday--
because we knew the
birthdays because it
was an astrology site.
On everybody's birthday,
you put 50 karma coins
as a birthday present with
a little note from me.
And so we would do that.
I'd run into people on the
street, and they'd go--
and I don't even
know them-- you know?
And they'd say, that
was so nice of you
to give me that
birthday present.
And so we just started
giving and giving.
>>REGINA: We're so
touched by generosity
on every level as human beings.
>>O'BRIEN: You could say it was
a cynical marketing strategy.
And it did work from
that point of view.
But that wasn't where
I was coming from.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>O'BRIEN: I just wanted to see
what-- it was kind of a Johnny
Appleseed thing.
I was trying to promote this
whole new way of doing things.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>O'BRIEN: And I wanted
to give it to people.
>>REGINA: One of
the things that you
started talking about-- you
touched on just a bit ago--
and that is, again, our
actual hierarchy of values.
And you and I have
both met, and I've
interviewed John Demartini
a couple of times.
And I think his work
is really brilliant,
and I think you do as well.
>>O'BRIEN: Oh yeah.
>>REGINA: Kind of knocked
on from Maslow's hierarchy
of needs-- this
hierarchy of values
that we have-- that can't be
dictated, encouraged, given,
or anything like that.
It's so unique to each of us.
>>O'BRIEN: Right.
>>REGINA: And talk
about the necessity
of us finding out, truly
finding out what that is.
>>O'BRIEN: Well
there's two reasons
to be highly conscious of what
your hierarchy of values is.
One is so that you can make
better decisions based on what
your highest values are.
And the second one
is you might want
to change your
hierarchy of values
once you realize what they are.
And the thing I loved
about his system
was his way of analyzing
how you can figure out
what your true
hierarchy of values is.
And when he uses
the word values,
he's not talking about ideals.
>>REGINA: No.
>>O'BRIEN: And he's not
talking about philosophy.
He's talking about the
things that you actually
spend the most time
and energy and money
and thinking about-- the things
that you think about or do
the most-- those are your
highest values in his very
pragmatic system.
So if you're working
70 hours a week,
that's your highest
value, because that's
by far the thing you're
spending the most time on.
Now, you can interpret
that and boil it down.
What does that mean?
Well it could be survival,
or it could be ambition,
or it could be
whatever your goal is.
But it really is
very, very important
for us to know what
our hierarchy of values
is so that we can
skillfully answer
that first intuitive
decision making question--
the first visionary
which is, what is the
best next move to make?
And if we're not clear
about what we want,
most people would say--
most people could easily say
and a lot of people do, they
say, I don't know what I want,
but I'm damn sure this isn't it.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
We know through pain
what we don't want.
>>O'BRIEN: That's right.
And it's too easy.
That's not going to
get you what you want.
Just being clear about
what you don't want
is never going to get
you what you want.
It can be helpful in some
circumstances to avoid things,
but we have to get clear
about what we want.
And I call that in
the book formulating
your strategic vision.
And there's a
whole logic process
that can enter into that, too.
And Demartini's hierarchy of
values is a logical process--
>>REGINA: It is a
logical process.
>>O'BRIEN: --of determining
that, what you're--
>>REGINA: But it's
really valuable.
As he says, if
you're a woman who
is beating her head
against a wall,
trying to climb through a
corporate situation that causes
nothing but pain when all
she really is spending
her time thinking
about and wanting to do
is to be home with her kids.
>>O'BRIEN: Right.
>>REGINA: This is common.
>>O'BRIEN: Yeah.
>>REGINA: OK so what happens in
there once you've identified I
don't want to be doing that.
I want to spend
time with my kids.
I want to be there to help
them with their homework
and drive them to practice
and all that sort of thing.
>>O'BRIEN: Right.
>>REGINA: This is where
life gets complex.
>>O'BRIEN: Yeah, well
we're conflicted.
No question.
And there's no-- there's
probably no way to ever
be completely conflict free.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>O'BRIEN: It's just part
of the process of life.
>>REGINA: But knowing
that makes a difference.
>>O'BRIEN: Right.
>>REGINA: Then
maybe you say, hey,
OK this isn't the
best position for me.
Maybe I need to shift
to where I'm working
three days from my home.
I mean, you find ways
around it once you know--
once you're true with yourself.
I did that with my media career
when I was raising my son.
I'm going to become an
independent-- get out
of news-- independent
producer, so I
can be there for my son's
games, take him to school,
pick him up, and make his
little lunches for him.
And it worked for us.
>>O'BRIEN: Right.
Yeah, it's not all or nothing.
That's our problem.
We tend to think in
black and white terms.
And I have a
counselor who's always
reminding me there's more than
two solutions to any problem.
It's never black and white.
>>REGINA: Right.
And that's why I think where
John Demartini's work really
comes in and stops you
from lying to yourself.
>>O'BRIEN: Right.
And another thing to
remember is that while you
can have anything you want, you
can't have everything you want.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>O'BRIEN: And you can't have
everything you want right now.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>O'BRIEN: So life
is give and take.
It's a balancing act.
>>REGINA: And you say one of
the big problems-- and this
comes to having
everything now-- is
that we have become a
society of consumers
rather than of producers.
>>O'BRIEN: Right.
And so when I'm talking about in
this chapter on self-knowledge
about what you want and getting
clear about what you want
and what your
highest values are,
I'm not including all the
things you want to consume.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>O'BRIEN: Or all
of the pleasures
that you want to experience.
This is really a
book about doing.
Decision making is
an active process.
It's a doing thing.
There's thinking behind it,
but it's not about consuming.
It's not about just
gratifying your impulses.
It's about doing something
that's meaningful to you.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>O'BRIEN: So the
self-knowledge process
has to do with discovering
what is meaningful for you.
>>REGINA: And so we
already talked a little bit
earlier about how anxiety,
fear, impatience, and all
that can not only ruin
your intuitive sense,
it can also ruin the
timing of events.
So you really relate
back to Carl Jung
and the synchronicity
principle in terms of timing.
And he was a firm,
a staunch proponent,
of listening to the conscious--
the deep unconscious self,
I think is what he calls it.
We can call it higher self, call
it whatever it is-- the soul,
the infinite aspect of self that
is connected to all knowledge.
>>O'BRIEN: Right.
He called it the
collective unconscious.
The reason he called
it that was because he
was contrasting with Freud.
At that time in the
early days of psychology,
Freud had posited that
there was the unconscious.
And he was talking about
the personal unconscious.
And he defined it
as a repository
of all of this repressed dark
stuff, these libidinal urges.
It was kind of
where all neuroses--
>>REGINA: It was dark.
>>O'BRIEN: Yeah.
It's where all the neuroses--
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>O'BRIEN: --and
worse came from.
And Jung said, wait a minute.
That doesn't really
explain a lot
of things that happen in
the human experience--
the creativity and intuition
and all of these marvelous ideas
that people develop.
And it doesn't explain that.
Where is this stuff coming from?
It doesn't explain dreams.
And it doesn't explain
the symbols in dreams.
Where is that coming from?
People would have these
really significant dreams
that were not
related to anything
they'd actually experienced.
And so he said, this
unconscious realm
is much bigger than this
personal dark corner
that Freud was defining.
And so he said, there's this
vast level of unconsciousness
that he called the
collective unconscious, which
is kind of a repository of
creativity and impressions,
images, archetypes,
symbols that actually--
and then he studied it.
And he studied all these
cultures and the same symbols
and the same archetypes are
present in the dreams of people
from all the different
cultures in the world.
And so he said,
this is a repository
that we're all privy to.
And I'm sure you've
heard or read
of stories where
somebody discovered
this and then at that same time,
two other people discovered--
>>REGINA: Halfway
across the world.
Yeah.
It's all there.
The information's
ready to be seeded.
>>O'BRIEN: Right.
Right.
That's right.
And so what happened was three
people whose intuitions were
primed for that
type of information
received it at
about the same time.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>O'BRIEN: From the
same cosmic source.
I call it infinite
intelligence, which is
what Napoleon Hill called it.
And the whole
purpose of intuition
is for that little antenna to
receive signals, impressions,
from the collective unconscious,
from this creative reservoir.
This creative
resource that we have.
So I defined it as a resource.
I used to say when I
was an entrepreneur-- I
had no investors.
Completely.
Nobody could believe that
I Ching software would ever
amount to anything.
So I didn't even try
to get investors.
And I couldn't get financing.
But people would ask me,
do you have any investors?
And I would say, yes, my
backer has infinite resources.
And I was kind of counting on--
>>REGINA: Something
happening there.
>>O'BRIEN: --coming up with the
right idea at the right time.
But so we have this reservoir
that we can tune in to.
The problem is our intuitive
antenna is so blocked
and it's so distracted by all
of the noise in the system
and all of the strong
emotions that it's not
able to receive these
signals, because these
are very fine signals.
>>REGINA: They are.
And this brings us-- as
we're winding down our chat
here-- brings us to the notion
of the infinite intelligence
and wisdom that
we all have access
to that's always trying to speak
to us if we would only listen.
And the heart.
>>O'BRIEN: That's right.
>>REGINA: The heart
precedes the mind.
>>O'BRIEN: That's a
great cause for hope.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>O'BRIEN: No matter how
desperate somebody feels,
it's really helpful
to realize that there
is this reservoir of creative
intelligence out there
that is there for us.
It's not like a deity that's
judging us and deciding
whether we deserve
its help or not.
It's an unlimited resource
that's always there for us.
The only thing we have
to do is tap into it.
The only thing we
have to do is learn
how to be receptive,
learn how to calm down
and do some
mindfulness techniques,
and let our intuition
receive what's there for us.
>>REGINA: And I love what
you did with the book,
because it takes us through
the background-- some
of the science,
logical processes.
It's well referenced
without being overly so.
And into, again, the
more quiet practice.
>>O'BRIEN: Well thank you.
>>REGINA: You did
a beautiful job.
>>O'BRIEN: Thank you very much.
>>REGINA: Thank you, Paul.
Again, the title of Paul's
book is "Great Decisions,
Perfect Timing."
Meanwhile, you might want
to watch my first interview
with Paul in the
Gaiam TV archives.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Gaiam TV.